{\rtf1\ansi\deff1
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2 times;}{\f1\froman\fprq0 times;}{\f2\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2 helvetica;}{\f4\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s1\f2\fs20\snext1 Standard;}
{\s2\sb240\sa120\keepn\f3\fs28\sbasedon1\snext3 Heading;}
{\s3\f2\sbasedon1\snext3 Text body;}
{\s4\keepn\f2\sbasedon1\snext1{\*\soutlvl0} Heading 1;}
{\s5\keepn\f2\fs32\sbasedon1\snext1{\*\soutlvl1} Heading 2;}
{\*\cs7\f4 RTF_Num 2 1;}
{\*\cs8 WW-Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\cs9\f4 WW8Num1z0;}
{\*\cs10 Numbering Symbols;}
}
{\info{\creatim\yr2002\mo5\dy10\hr15\min27}{\revtim\yr1601\mo1\dy1\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr2002\mo5\dy10\hr15\min27}{\comment StarWriter}{\vern5170}}\deftab720
{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn11909\pghsxn16834\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1800\margbsxn1800\pgdscnxt0 Standard;}}
\paperh16834\paperw11909\margl1800\margr1800\margt1800\margb1800\sectd\sbknone\pgwsxn11909\pghsxn16834\marglsxn1800\margrsxn1800\margtsxn1800\margbsxn1800\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pard\plain \s5\keepn\f2\fs32\li0\ri0\fi0\qc IntAct -
\par \pard\plain \s1\f2\fs20\fs32\qc An  Open Standard and Software 
\par for Protein-Protein Interaction Data
\par \pard\plain \s3\f2\li0\ri0\fi284\qj 
\par \pard\plain \s3\f2\fs20\qj Henning Hermjakob{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 1}, Luisa Montecchi-Palazzi{{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 9}, Chris Lewington{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 1}, Dan Wu{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 1}, Martin Vingron{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 2}, Bernd Roechert{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 3}, Peter Roepstorff{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 4}, David Sherman{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 5}, Alfonso Valencia{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 6}, Hanah Margalit{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 7}, John Armstrong{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 8}, Rolf Apweiler{{\*\updnprop5800}\up10 1}
\par \pard\plain \s1\f2\fs20\fs20\qj 
\par {{\*\updnprop5800}\up7 1}European Bioinformatics Institute, Hinxton, UK; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 2}Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Berlin, Germany; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 3}Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, Geneva, Switzerland; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 4}University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 5}University of Bordeaux, France; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 6}Nat
ional Center of Biotechnology, Madrid, Spain; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 7}The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 8}Glaxo Research and Development Limited, Stevenage, UK; {{\*\updnprop5800}\up8 9}Universita Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s3\f2\fs20\qj Protein-Protein Interactions (PPI) lie at the heart of most biological processes, e.g. signal transduction, metabolic pathways and immune response. Modern experimental technologies allow to perform highly automated PPI experiments, and a medium-sized resea
rch team can currently determine thousands of protein-protein interactions per year. Due to the high scientific and medical relevance of PPI data and the fact that huge ammounts of valuable data can be generated at a relatively moderate cost, a high number
 of large-scale PPI experiments are currently being conducted or planned in private and public research.
\par 
\par But due to the complex nature of biological processes, and bias of the experimental techniques, each research group can still only generate a partial picture of the actual biologial system. One approach to increase the scientific value of protein interacti
on data is to combine the data from several experiments to gain a more complete and more reliable overall picture. But this combination is currently very labour-intensive, if not impossible, as no widely accepted data standard and no centralised resources 
for PPI data exist. Practically each group generating PPI data develop their own systems for storage, analysis and visualisation. Apart from the duplication of work, this results in a high degree of fragmentation and incompatibility between different PPI d
ata sets.
\par 
\par The aim of the IntAct project is to develop a common data standard for PPI data and to provide open source software implementing this standard. Where possible, IntAct adopts existing standards and conventions, e.g. GO terms or the NCBI taxonomy. 
\par 
\par We present a beta version of the standard, and a software package that allows the installation of a local repository implementing the standard. The IntAct software automatically retrieves publicly available data from other nodes of the IntAct network and p
rovides input and analysis tools. It thus allows research teams to set up a local IntAct node and to analyse their own unpublished data in the context of publicly available data. In addition, the open-source IntAct software allows to extend the existing an
alysis tools according to the needs of the scientific context, in particular for the combination with complementary data types, e.g. gene expression data. Once the data has been analysed and the results have been published, the data can be made available t
o the scientific community either by submission to one of the existing IntAct nodes, or by adding the local server as a node of the IntAct network.
\par 
\par We invite the community to contribute to the development of the IntAct standard for protein-protein interaction data and the associated software. For further information, please contact 
\par intact-dev@ebi.ac.uk.
\par 
\par This work was supported by EU grant QLRI-2001-00015.
\par }